=== PAGE 25 ===

Table 4-1: Advancement Point Assignment
Category Advancement Points Earned
Normal distribution of points from 16 to 2 across the highest ranked team to
Qualification Phase the lowest based on the equation in section 4.1.1 Qualification Phase
Performance Performance. (This will result in a minimum of 2 points and a maximum of
16 points being awarded for qualification phase performance.)
Equal to 21 minus the ALLIANCE lead number (e.g., 18 points for ALLIANCE
ALLIANCE lead
#3 lead)
Equal to 21 minus the Draft Order Acceptance number (e.g., 18 points for the
Draft Order Acceptance
team which accepts the third draft position)
40 points for 1st Place (Winners)
20 points for 2nd Place (Finalists)
10 points for 3rd Place
Playoff Advancement
5 points for 4th Place
(See Section 13.8 Dual Division Events for modifications to this
section)
60 points for Inspire Award 1st Place
30 points for Inspire Award 2nd Place
15 points for Inspire Award 3rd Place
Team Judged Awards 12 points for all other 1st Place Awards
6 points for all other 2nd Place Awards
3 points for all other 3rd Place Awards
(See A211 for a list of points-eligible awards)
Section 4 Advancement V3 25 of 188

=== PAGE 26 ===

If there is a tie in the point totals between teams, the higher ranked team will be determined using the following
additional sorting criteria in Table 4-2.
Table 4-2 Advancement Sorting Criteria Including Tiebreakers
Order Sort Criteria
1st Total Advancement Points (as calculated in Table 4-1)
2nd Judged Team Award Points
3rd Playoff Advancement Points
4th ALLIANCE Selection Results Points (ALLIANCE lead or Draft Order Acceptance)
5th Qualification Phase Performance Points
6th Average Qualification MATCH Points (excluding FOULS)
7th Average Qualification AUTO Points
8th Highest individual Qualification MATCH Points (excluding FOULS)
9th Second Highest individual Qualification MATCH Points (excluding FOULS)
10th Random Selection by Event Management System
4.1.1 Qualification Phase Performance
The calculation of Qualification Phase Performance points is done using the equation below. This equation is
an inverse error function which utilizes the following variables:
− R – the qualification rank of the team at the event at the conclusion of Qualification MATCHES (as
reported by the Event Management Software and defined in Section 13.6.3 Qualification
Ranking)
− N – the number of FIRST Tech Challenge teams participating in the Qualification rounds at the
event
− Alpha (α) – a static value (1.07) used to standardize the distribution of points at events
𝑵−𝟐𝑹+𝟐 𝟕
𝑸𝒖𝒂𝒍𝒊𝒇𝒊𝒄𝒂𝒕𝒊𝒐𝒏𝑷𝒐𝒊𝒏𝒕𝒔(𝑹,𝑵,𝜶)= ⌈𝑰𝒏𝒗𝑬𝑹𝑭( )( )+𝟗⌉
𝜶𝑵 𝟏
𝑰𝒏𝒗𝑬𝑹𝑭( )
𝜶
This formula generates an approximately normal distribution of Qualification Phase Performance points at an
event, based on rank, with most teams getting a moderate number of points, and fewer teams getting the
highest or lowest numbers of points available.
Table 4-3 displays sample Qualification Phase Performance points for variously ranked teams at a 28-team
event. The system will automatically generate the appropriate points for each team based on their rank and the
number of teams at the event.
Section 4 Advancement V3 26 of 188

=== PAGE 27 ===

Table 4-3 Sample Qualification Round Point Assignments
Rank 1 2 3 4 … 12 13 14 … 25 26 27 28
Points 16 15 14 14 … 10 10 10 … 6 5 5 4
4.1.2 ALLIANCE Selection Results
This attribute measures both individual team Qualification round seeding performance and recognition by
peers.
ALLIANCE leads are recognized based on their Qualification phase seeding rank. This rank is a result of the
rules of the game, which typically incorporate several team performance attributes, and are designed to
eliminate ties in rank. ALLIANCE partners are rewarded based on peer recognition. To be invited to join an
ALLIANCE, a team’s peers have decided that the team has attributes that are desirable. Giving points for
ALLIANCE selection also supports come-from-behind teams. A team taking several MATCHES to optimize
their performance may be recognized as a late bloomer by a top seeded team, even if that performance isn’t
reflected in the rankings because of poor performance in early MATCHES. These points also have the potential
to recognize teams employing a unique strategy with their ROBOT. Teams with unique or divergent ROBOT
capabilities that complement the strengths of other ALLIANCE members may be selected to fill a strategic
niche.
Note also that ALLIANCE leads are given the same number of points as the team drafted in the same
sequence. For example, the team who accepts the pick from the 3rd ALLIANCE lead receives the same number
of points as the 3rd ALLIANCE lead. Numerical analysis supports the idea that ALLIANCE leads are about as
strong in ROBOT performance as equivalently drafted teams. An additional minor benefit to this system is that
it allows teams who would traditionally not be a top ranked team the opportunity to be an ALLIANCE lead.
4.1.3 Playoff Performance
This attribute measures team performance as part of an ALLIANCE.
Teams earn points based on how far they progress into the Playoffs. Points are given to all teams within the
ALLIANCE as described in Table 4-1.
See Section 13.7.2 Playoff MATCH Bracket for more details on the number of ALLIANCES that are formed
for the Playoffs and an example of the Playoff MATCH bracket.
4.1.4 Team Judged Awards
This attribute measures team performance with respect to team awards judged at the event.
The points earned for team awards in this system are not intended to capture the full value of the award to the
team winning the award, or to represent the full value of the award to FIRST. In many ways, the team’s
experience in being selected for awards, especially the Inspire Award, is beyond measure, and could not be
fully captured in its entirety by any points-based system. Points are being assigned to awards in this system
only to help teams recognize that FIRST continues to be “More than Robots®,” and to assist in elevating award-
winning teams above non-award-winning teams in the ranking system.
Section 4 Advancement V3 27 of 188

=== PAGE 28 ===

Teams only get points for team awards judged at the event. If an award is not judged, is not for a team (e.g.,
the FIRST Leadership Award), or is not judged at the event (e.g., Safety Animation Award), no points are
earned. Points for awards not given at the event are not assigned to any team. See A211 for the list of points-
eligible awards.
4.2 Advancement Distribution by Region
Advancement within a region is determined by the Program Delivery Partner and minimum advancement
numbers should be made publicly accessible to participating teams as early as possible before the event, and
no later than when ALLIANCE selection begins. Advancement information may be published on the FTC-Events
page as shown in Figure 4-3.
Figure 4-3 Event Advancement Information as shown on the ftc-events.firstinspires.org/ page
Advancement to the FIRST Championship and FIRST Premier Events is determined by FIRST Headquarters
based on a number of factors including:
− Number of teams registered within the region before the cutoff date (this season November 17th)
o Regions who meet minimum registration requirements
o Total number of teams within the region
− New developing regions with a Program Delivery Partner
− Global and regional representation
Regional allocations of advancement slots information will be published on the FTC-Events page starting in
early December. Regionally allocated slots which are not secured by the event deadline will be returned to
FIRST HQ or Premier Event Host for reallocation which may include reallocation to a new region or waitlist
team invitation.
Section 4 Advancement V3 28 of 188

=== PAGE 29 ===

5 Event Rules (E)
This section includes general rules which apply from the beginning of the public schedule when teams arrive
through the end of the event with departure from the venue. These are high-level rules intended to promote an
orderly and safe experience for all participants. The Event Director may specify additional restrictions beyond
those listed here based on local venue requirements which in most circumstances will be communicated to
teams in advance of the event.
Universal Violation Note: A violation of any Event Rules (E) will result in a warning from event
volunteers. Egregious or repeated violations of an Event Rule will be addressed with a VERBAL WARNING
from the Head REFEREE, the Lead ROBOT INSPECTOR (LRI) and/or Event Director. Subsequent violations
of an Event Rule may result in escalation to FIRST Headquarters and/or disqualification for the team from
MATCHES and awards. Criminal behavior will not be tolerated and will result in removal of individual(s)
involved and/or disqualification for the team from the event.
Any items that are deemed unsafe or outside specifications by FIRST personnel and/or the Event Director
must be removed.
Additional rule specific violations, if applicable, are listed with their corresponding rule.
FIRST is committed to STEM for Everyone™ and as such, FIRST strives to make reasonable accommodations
for persons with disabilities that request accommodation. If a participant needs an accommodation for an
event, we ask that they talk to a volunteer at the event or contact their local leadership before the event so they
can ensure the request is addressed. Accommodations are considered reasonable if they do not create an
undue hardship, cause safety concerns, or fundamentally alter the nature of the event.
Rules around safety and security within this section are minimum requirements, and Program Delivery Partners
are able to implement increased restrictions due to local or venue requirements (e.g., requiring badging for all
attendees, reserving seating for accessibility). Partners should communicate additional local requirements
early enough to allow teams to plan.
Safety is always paramount, and many rules are intended to establish norms at
each event that will mitigate injury risk to all participants.
The Event Director has the final decision authority for all safety-related issues
within a venue.
5.1 General Rules
E101 *Personal safety comes first. All team members must observe the following safety practices
throughout the event:
A. wear safety glasses or safety rated glasses with side shields (ANSI-approved, UL Listed, CE
EN166 rated, AS/NZS certified, or CSA rated) while in and around the playing FIELD and in
the pit area. Clear or lightly tinted safety glasses are preferred. Shaded glasses are allowed
for those who need them and do not require a specific accommodation request. The only
instances where teams are not required to wear safety glasses are in their first 10 minutes
Section 5 Event Rul
=== PAGE 30 ===

of their event load in, and for the first 10 minutes pits are open each day of the event as long
as they’re not working on the ROBOT or setting up their pit,
B. wear closed toed/heeled shoes,
C. control entanglement risks by tying back long hair and removing other dangling decorations
including lanyards, spirit wear and rings as needed while working on or around a ROBOT or
ROBOT related materials or tools,
D. wear appropriate clothing,
E. walk in the venue, and
F. comply with government and venue-specific health and safety requirements in place for that
event (i.e., mask wearing).
Teams are responsible for bringing their own personal protective equipment.
For more information about safety at FIRST events, please reference the FIRST
Safety Manual.
A partial list of footwear that is not allowed: Crocs, slides, sandals, flip flops,
Birkenstocks, sandals with an ankle strap, clogs.
E102 *Be Nice. All participants should strive to be gracious and professional at all times while attending a
FIRST Tech Challenge event. Uncivil behavior toward any participants is not tolerated.
Examples of inappropriate behavior include, but are not limited to:
A. use of offensive language or other uncivil conduct towards someone,
B. “weaponizing Gracious Professionalism” by accusing another person or team
of being “not GP”,
C. intentionally blocking the view of other participants or spectators for an
extended period (Team members momentarily holding up team signs while
directly supporting their team is not considered a violation of this rule.), and
D. jamming or interfering with the remote sensing capabilities of a ROBOT or the
FIELD while in open-access spectator seating areas.
Examples of remote sensing capabilities include, but are not limited to, vision
systems, acoustic range finders, sonars, and infrared proximity sensors.
Use of imagery that, to a reasonably astute observer, mimics the AprilTags
employed on the FIELD is a violation of this rule.
Examples of particularly contemptible behavior that may result in ejection from
the event include, but are not limited to, the following:
E. assault, e.g., throwing something that hits another person (even if
unintended),
F. threat, e.g., saying something like “if you don’t reverse that call, I’ll make you
regret it,”
G. harassment, e.g., badgering someone with no new information after a
decision has been made or a question has been answered,
H. bullying, e.g., using body or verbal language to cause another person to feel
inadequate or unsafe,
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 30 of 188

=== PAGE 31 ===

I. insulting, e.g., telling someone they do not deserve to be on a team,
J. swearing at another person (versus swearing under one’s breath or at
oneself), and
K. yelling at another person(s) in anger or frustration.
E103 *Children with adults, please. Children under 12 must be accompanied in the pits by an adult at all
times.
E104 *Respect the venue. Teams may not damage the venue, including but not limited to bleachers, floors,
walls, railings, in any way. This includes littering with team giveaways including candies, flyers, and
stickers.
E105 *Teams must check in. An adult team member must check in at the Pit Administration station, or the
designated check in location, no later than 45 minutes before Qualification MATCHES are scheduled to
start unless otherwise specified or approved by the Event Director.
Violation: Failure to check in may result in a team not participating in the event.
E106 *Event resources are for competing teams only. Only teams registered for an event may use that
event’s competition FIELD, practice FIELD, and inspection unless pre-approved by the Event Director or
the Program Delivery Partner. Host teams supplying practice FIELD elements and/or machine shop
resources may use them; however, teams registered for that event must be granted priority.
E107 *Practice only when/where permitted. Teams may only practice with their ROBOT in their pit space, in
the designated event practice areas, or while in a Practice MATCH.
Teams may not set up their own practice equipment outside their pit in other
areas of the event venue. If the Event Director determines a pit practice setup is
unsafe or interferes with activity in adjacent pits or aisles, the team must
discontinue the activity.
Demonstrating robot functionality to guests or JUDGES is not considered
practice.
E108 *Work in designated areas only. At the event venue, teams may only produce FABRICATED ITEMS as
follows:
A. in their pit area,
B. in another team’s pit area with permission from that team,
C. while queued for a MATCH or practice FIELD (given space constraints, extra scrutiny
regarding safety is required),
D. any area designated by event staff (e.g., playoff pit area), or
E. as permitted at provided machine shops that are available to all teams.
E109 *Some things do not belong at events. Do not bring or use the following:
A. Skateboards,
B. ‘hoverboards’,
C. drones,
D. bottled gas tanks (e.g., helium),
E. noisy devices or noisemakers, such as floor stompers, whistles and/or air horns,
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 31 of 188

=== PAGE 32 ===

F. walkie-talkies, or
G. scooters, except for those used for accommodations.
E110 *Do not arrange for additional utilities. Do not arrange for power, internet access, or phone lines from
venue service providers or attempt to use venue internet connections reserved for event purposes (e.g.,
FIRST event management software or webcasting).
E111 *Do not sell stuff. Teams may not conduct sales at an event. This includes, but is not limited to, raffle
tickets, food, hats, shirts, candy, water, soft drinks, fruit, or any promotional products unless specifically
allowed by the Event Director.
E112 *Make FIRST loud, but with restrictions. Do not invite or bring live bands to play in the audience. Do not
play loud music.
E113 *Hang banners with care. Be respectful when hanging your banners.
A. Do not cover or move other team or sponsor signs already in place.
B. Share the available space fairly with other teams.
C. Do not obstruct the view of spectators.
D. Get permission from the Event Director before hanging banners outside of your pit.
E. Hang signs and banners in a safe manner.
F. Banners hung outside team pits must not be larger than 25 ft.2 (2.3 m2).
We encourage teams to bring team flags and/or signs for display in their pits
and/or the ARENA.
Respect venue-specific rules regarding sign location and hanging methods. At
the end of the event, safely remove all signs and anything used to hang the signs
(tape, string, etc.).
E114 *Limit flag and flagpole size if used in the ARENA. Flags and flagpoles may not be of unreasonable
size and weight if they are going to be used around the FIELD.
As a guideline, reasonable flags are less than 3 ft. by 5 ft. (~91 cm by 152 cm) in
size and weigh less than 2 lbs. (~907g). Reasonable flagpoles may not be more
than 8 ft. (~243 cm) long and must weigh less than 3 lbs. (~1360g).
E115 *No firearms or other weapons. Firearms or other weapons are prohibited at all FIRST events for all
FIRST programs, including without limitation, all official FIRST Events posted here. This rule includes
prop or simulated weapons which appear to be real. This policy does not apply to law enforcement or
venue security personnel.
E116 *Inspection required for practice FIELD access. A team may only use a practice FIELD with a ROBOT
that has passed an initial, complete inspection. This rule only applies to events not using scheduled
inspection times.
E117 *Do not record anyone at the event without their consent. Do not record interactions with anyone at an
event, without the person’s consent. FIRST event staff and volunteers are empowered to excuse
themselves from an interaction in which they are being recorded after declining consent.
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 32 of 188

=== PAGE 33 ===

Please note that many FIRST events are livestreamed and FIRST participants
have given permission to appear in footage from FIRST. This does not mean that
people can record specific interactions without additional consent.
Laws regarding recording of conversations vary state-to-state and country-to
country, and, in some cases, recording without consent may be criminal.
Introducing the idea of recording a conversation with an implied reason of
proving someone’s error can escalate a discussion and is likely to increase its
adversarial nature.
5.2 Machine Shops and Host Team Build Spaces
Rarely, some events host a machine shop or open their team’s build space, during specific hours (see the event
public agenda), to help teams with repair and fabrication of their ROBOT. Machine shops are typically
sponsored by the local host organization. In most cases, the machine shop is on site and readily accessible to
all teams. All competing teams should have access to the same resources.
5.3 Wireless Rules
E301 *No wireless communication. Teams may not set up their own Wi-Fi (802.11a/b/g/n/ac/ax/be)
wireless communication (e.g., access points or ad-hoc networks), Bluetooth, or any other
communications systems using 2.4GHz or 5GHz wireless in the venue.
A wireless hot spot created by a cellular device, camera, smart TV, etc. is
considered an access point.
Some smart TVs have access points enabled by factory default. Please make
sure that functionality is disabled for any TVs brought to the event.
Bluetooth uses 2.4GHz frequencies to communicate which can interfere with
venue and ROBOT systems.
Many R/C toys (including drones, wireless vehicles, FPV systems) use 2.4GHz
and 5GHz communications. Do not operate these in the venue.
E302 *Don’t interfere with wireless networks. Participants may not interfere, attempt to interfere, or attempt
to connect with any other team or FIRST wireless network without expressed permission.
Teams are encouraged to report suspected wireless security vulnerabilities to
the FIRST Technical Advisor (FTA) or Event Director if at the event or to FIRST via
customerservice@firstinspires.org to report a suspected issue after the event.
5.4 Load-In
Some large events (often multi-day events) may set specific time frames, published on the event public
schedule, in which teams are invited to load their ROBOT and equipment into their pit areas before pits
officially open.
Load-in can be stressful for teams and volunteers, which can be mitigated by preparation and planning.
Unanticipated factors, like traffic or weather, can change a team’s scheduled arrival time, making the process
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 33 of 188

=== PAGE 34 ===

difficult. The most important things a team should remember are to be safe, gracious, and professional.
Teams who experience smooth and easy load-ins are encouraged to check with others to see if they can help
and make their experience as positive as possible.
5.5 Pits
A team pit is the designated space, typically a 10 ft. by 10 ft. by 10 ft. (~3 m x 3 m x 3 m) area, where a team
may work on their ROBOT. Each team is assigned a pit space typically marked with their team number. This
helps team members, JUDGES, and visitors find teams easily. Pit spaces may vary based on competition venue
size limits.
The pit area refers to the general area where team pits are located which encompasses the aisles between the
pits, pit admin, ROBOT inspection, practice FIELD, or other areas where ROBOTS may be active or worked on.
All pit rules apply to the full pit area.
Additional limitations beyond those listed below may be imposed by the Event Director but they should be
clearly communicated at least 48 hours before the event start time and applied to all teams fairly. Team pits
may or may not have a table and power outlet. If individual team outlets are not provided, the venue must
provide access to team-usable outlets in the pit area for charging batteries. Power may not be available
overnight for a multi-day event.
Teams, volunteers, FIRST staff, and guests spend a lot of time in the pits. Get to know other teams and help
each other when you can. Time is short and help is very often right "next door" in the adjacent team pits.
Small, bench-top machinery, with appropriate guards, is permitted in team pits. ‘Small’ machinery is machinery
that can be easily lifted by one person and examples include, but are not limited to: 3D printers, small band
saws, small drill presses, desktop CNC mills, and sanders.
E501 *Pits are unavailable if closed. Teams may not access their pit area outside the designated hours.
E502 *Stay in your pit. Teams should set up their allowed equipment fully within their assigned pit space.
Teams may not:
A. run power or internet lines from their team pit to any other area except as instructed or
allowed by the Event Director,
B. swap team pits with other teams if pits have assigned team numbers, or
C. move themselves to empty team pits without Event Director approval.
E503 *Keep aisles clear. Aisles must be kept clear.
E504 *No sparks or flames. Tools that throw sparks or produce open flames are prohibited.
Examples of tools that violate this rule include, but are not limited to: welders,
bench and angle grinders, and gas torches.
E505 *Nothing too big. Floor standing power tools are prohibited.
Examples include, but are not limited to: full-size drill presses, and band saws.
E506 *No brazing or welding. Brazing/welding is prohibited.
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 34 of 188

=== PAGE 35 ===

E507 *Solder with specific tools only. Soldering may be done using an electric iron/gun only.
E508 *Structures must be safe. Teams may not build any structure that supports the weight of people or
stores items overhead. Structures may not block or inhibit fire sprinkler systems or otherwise be
unsafe.
E509 *Secure team identification assets. Team signs, flags, and displays must be securely mounted to the
pit structure.
E510 *Only use aerosol or other chemicals with noxious fumes in approved areas. Any aerosol or chemical
that produces noxious fumes or spray particulates should only be used in approved areas. Not all
venues will allow the use of these products anywhere on site.
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 35 of 188

=== PAGE 36 ===

5.6 ROBOT Carts
Most teams use carts to transport their ROBOT throughout an event. Carts are not required but are
recommended (to minimize risk of muscle strains, dropped ROBOTS, and other hazards). In addition to the
rules listed below, teams are encouraged to put the team’s number on the cart, refer to the FIRST Safety
Manual for key safety guidelines and practices.
E601 *Carts must be safe and easy to use. Carts must be easy to control, maneuver, and pose no risk to
bystanders.
E602 *Carts should not be too big. Carts must fit through a standard 30-inch door.
E603 *Carts cannot park anywhere. Carts must remain in the team pit (or other venue designated cart
staging areas) when not in use.
E604 *No noisy carts. Carts may not be equipped with music or other sound-generating devices.
E605 *No motor driven carts. ROBOT carts may not use powered propulsion.
5.7 Ceremonies
At most events, there are opening and closing ceremonies to show honor and respect for represented
countries, sponsors, teams, mentors, volunteers, and award winners. Ceremonies provide everyone with the
opportunity to collectively applaud the successes of all participants. They also give teams a chance to "meet"
the volunteers and other people and sponsors involved with the event. Closing ceremony elements are at the
end of most events and are integrated into and presented between Playoff MATCHES.
At the awards ceremony, FIRST presents trophies and medallions to outstanding teams. All team members are
encouraged to attend the ceremonies, be punctual, and show appreciation to volunteers that staffed the event.
E701 *Quiet in the pits during ceremonies. During ceremonies outside of Playoff MATCHES, team members
may not:
A. use power tools
B. use loud hand tools (hammers, saws, etc.), or
C. shout, yell, or use loud voices, unless as a demonstration of approval during a ceremonial
activity.
E702 *Pit person limit during ceremonies is 5. No more than 5 team members may be in the pits during
ceremonies outside of Playoff MATCHES. Each team must have at least 1 representative observing
ceremonies to be responsible for relaying important information to the entire team.
All teams are encouraged to have as many people in the stands for ceremonies
as possible. This is important both to celebrate all who are recognized during
ceremonies, but also to listen for important day-of information from event
organizers which might be critical for your team.
E703 *Be respectful during anthems. Team members, including any remaining in the pits, should exhibit
peaceful behavior during the presentation of all national anthems. If team members wish to abstain
from traditional anthem observance behaviors, they have a right to do so, as long as they remain silent
and non-disruptive.
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 36 of 188

=== PAGE 37 ===

5.8 In the Stands
E801 *No saving seats. Teams are not permitted to save or designate seats for team members that are not
actively using them.
Teams may not hang banners or ribbons or otherwise designate seating. (Event
staff will remove and discard any banners, roping, etc., used to designate
seating.) Please take turns sitting in the bleachers/stands if seating is limited. If
there is a crowding problem, we ask that you kindly leave after your team's
MATCH and return later, if possible.
The Event Director may reserve seats for attendees who require accessible
seating, for certain volunteers, or to ensure teams in the Playoffs have seats to
watch their teams play.
E802 *No throwing items from the stands. Items may not be thrown from the audience seating.
Section 5 Event Rules (E) V2 37 of 188

=== PAGE 39 ===

6 Awards (A)
FIRST Tech Challenge celebrates the excitement of competition both on and off the field. Through the
following awards, we celebrate the FIRST Core Values which makes us so much “More than Robots”. Please
note that different event types (e.g., League Tournaments, Regional Championship, FIRST Championship) or
event sizes may offer different sets of awards. Not every award is presented at every FIRST Tech Challenge
event. No awards are presented at League Meets, see section 14 League Play Tournaments (L), additional
details by event type are available in the sections below.
Judged awards are determined by volunteers from the community who prepare for the event with thorough
training and certification. There are two key judging volunteer roles:
− JUDGES – meet with teams to learn about and celebrate the unique journey and accomplishments
of each team and evaluate these against award requirements. JUDGES interact with STUDENTS
during the interview process, and in the pits. As a group, JUDGES determine the teams that receive
awards at events.
− JUDGE Advisor (JA) – trains, directs, and supervises JUDGES throughout the event. JUDGE
Advisors oversee the judging processes and procedures to make sure they are in accordance with
FIRST Tech Challenge judging guidelines.
FIRST Tech Challenge judging is delivered in one of two ways. Most events will have in-person (“traditional”)
judging along with the standard in-person gameplay. The second is hybrid format which has in-person
gameplay, but judging is done remotely before in-person gameplay. This manual will primarily describe the
traditional in person judging process. The remote judging process follows the same overall judging standards
and requirements, but interviews are conducted online, and in-person meetings may not occur.
Teams may also read the Judge and Judge Advisor Manuals to gain more insight into the complete judging
process. Teams are also encouraged to review the Outreach Terms and Definitions Document to ensure all
teams can clearly communicate with judges and our community the great things they do to grow FIRST.
6.1 Team Judged Awards Overview and Schedule
Most FIRST Tech Challenge awards fall into two broad categories: Machine, Creativity, and Innovation (MCI),
and Team Attributes (TA). In addition to MCI and TA awards, there are also two other separate awards, the
Think Award and the Judges’ Choice Award. The final award is the Inspire Award which is a special
overarching award (Figure 6-1). The local Program Delivery Partner may elect to give additional awards to
celebrate local sponsors or initiatives, but these awards are not considered Team Judged Awards for the
purposes of advancement calculations as described in Section 4 Advancement.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 39 of 188

=== PAGE 40 ===

Figure 6-1: Award hierarchy
− The Inspire Award recognizes teams who excel in MCI, TA, and Think award accomplishments. This
team is an all-around inspiration for others.
− MCI awards recognize the technical accomplishments of teams in the brainstorming, design,
construction, operation, and control of their ROBOTS.
− TA awards recognize teams who have expanded their skillset, created a plan to sustain their
program and team, and spread the message of FIRST throughout their outreach.
− The Think Award recognizes teams who masterfully document their team’s process and ROBOT
using their PORTFOLIO.
− Judges’ Choice Award recognizes a team whose unique efforts, performance, or dynamics merit
recognition, but does not fit into any of the other award categories.
The JUDGES will gather information from the teams through several different pathways (Figure 6-2). All teams
will have the opportunity to submit a team PORTFOLIO which should document aspects of their team which
directly support the judged award criteria or information which they wish the JUDGES to consider. Teams can
participate in two different types of interviews: a structured interview and pit interview(s).
All award winners chosen by the JUDGES are recognized as being positive examples of the award criteria, not
necessarily the “best” team. JUDGES will only consider the published award criteria in section 6.3 Team
Judged Award Descriptions.
Teams may participate in judging regardless of the inspection status of their ROBOT and are eligible for
awards even if they are attending the event without a ROBOT.
6.1.1 Sources of Information Considered for Awards
In addition to the information provided in a team’s PORTFOLIO (if submitted) and the interviews, JUDGE
Advisors may also accept feedback about teams at the event from other volunteers to help inform their
understanding of the team. All of the sources in Figure 6-2 help JUDGE Advisors facilitate discussions with
JUDGES when award deliberations begin.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 40 of 188

=== PAGE 41 ===

Figure 6-2: Sources of Information for Team Judged Awards.
In addition to the specific information sources JUDGES use to evaluate teams, there are also sources of
information which are specifically disallowed. JUDGES are strictly instructed to only consider information from
the current event and the current season and cannot consider information from outside what they have seen or
heard at the current event.
Per A201.E, progress, challenges, and accomplishments which have taken place
since January 1, 2025, can be documented in the team PORTFOLIO and will be
considered as part of the current season.
This means that information like past performance (good or bad), personal knowledge of a team, and external
sources like websites and social media are not considered. JUDGES also do not consider ROBOT performance
(for example, how many scoring tasks are completed) in an award unless it is specifically listed as part of the
required or encouraged evaluation criteria. A team’s ROBOT placement in a competition (winner or finalist,
etc.) or qualification ranking is not considered when evaluating teams for a judged award.
The awards are a method FIRST uses to inspire STUDENTS and open their eyes to building a better future
together. The awards process should foster a positive STUDENT interaction with JUDGES who are independent
caring adults and can recognize their achievements and encourage them to continue learning.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 41 of 188

=== PAGE 42 ===

6.1.2 Structured Interview
All teams are encouraged to prepare for a structured interview session where the team can present a prepared
oral presentation to a small panel of JUDGES, followed by a Q&A session. Typically, these interviews follow a
standard timeline (Figure 6-3) and last at least 10 minutes long, per A205.
Instead of the structured interview, interviews conducted at the FIRST
Championship have a different format. Teams should refer to the interview
format outlined in Section 15.1.2 for more details.
Figure 6-3: Structured Interview Timeline
1. Team arrives and JUDGES welcome the team.
2. Teams may present to the JUDGES uninterrupted for up to 5 minutes.
3. JUDGES will ask open ended questions to the team for the remaining of the scheduled structured
interview time.
4. Team departs from the interview space.
5. JUDGES discuss the structured interview and complete the feedback form.
6. JUDGES welcome the next team into the structured interview location and repeat the process.
Teams are encouraged to review the Judge Interview Question Bank prior to their judging interviews to
understand the type of questions that may be asked by the JUDGES. At each event, the JUDGE Advisor will
select two questions from the question bank that all teams will be asked at the start of the structured
interview’s question and answer session. One question will be focused on the MCI award category, and one
question will be focused on the TA award category. After the first two questions are asked and answered,
JUDGES may ask additional questions to help evaluate the team’s performance against the award criteria.
Additional questions asked during interviews may come from the question bank
but teams should be prepared to answer questions that are not listed within the
document.
6.1.3 Pit Interview(s)
After all the judging panels have finished, the JUDGES compare notes and may elect to follow up with the
teams in the pit area during the competition and conduct informal pit interviews. During pit interviews, teams
have the opportunity to expand upon materials presented in the structured interview and share additional
content with the JUDGES (for example, ROBOT prototypes, design artifacts, and photos or letters from
outreach events). A team does not need to prepare another presentation for a pit interview but should be ready
to answer questions from the JUDGES.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 42 of 188

=== PAGE 43 ===

JUDGES may read additional information during pit interviews but will not bring
back additional printed content to be referenced as part of the JUDGE
deliberations.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 43 of 188

=== PAGE 44 ===

6.1.4 Sustained Outreach and Demonstrating Impact by Numbers
In general, JUDGES will consider ongoing, sustained outreach to be of higher quality than occasional or one-off
outreach. JUDGES will seek to understand what is the impact of the outreach to the individuals being reached
by the activity.
Teams are encouraged to review the Outreach Terms and Definitions Document
to understand the requirements behind specific terms (starting a FIRST team,
running an event, reaching x number of people). JUDGES may ask specific
questions when a specific term listed in this document is mentioned in a team’s
PORTFOLIO or during an interview.
6.2 Team Judged Award Rules
This section outlines rules for in-person judging of Team Judged Awards. Modifications for the judging
process at the FIRST Championship can be found in Section 15.1.
A201 *Team PORTFOLIOS have limits. Teams have the opportunity to submit a team PORTFOLIO to be used
as part of the judging process. No other printed or digital content not directly included in this document
will be collected by the JUDGES to consider during deliberations. Team PORTFOLIOS must meet the
following requirements:
A. must consist of 1 cover page including the team number and optionally: team name,
PORTFOLIO table of contents, team organizations, sponsors, logo, motto, and picture of the
ROBOT and/or team,
B. no more than 15 pages of content,
C. use only US Letter (8.5” x 11”) or A4 (210 x 297 mm) size pages,
D. if submitted digitally, the complete submission must be less than 15MB in size, and
E. must only include progress, challenges, and accomplishments which have taken place since
January 1, 2025.
None of the content of the cover page will be used by JUDGES to evaluate any
awards criteria. Any content beyond the allowed 15 pages will not be reviewed by
the JUDGES.
Teams are encouraged to limit Personally Identifying Information (PII) in the
PORTFOLIO. Best practices would be to use only first names and optionally last
initials of STUDENTS. Photographs including images of STUDENT team
members are acceptable. The JUDGES use the cover page to identify the team
associated with the PORTFOLIO. Teams who forget to include a cover page may
be disqualified from judging if the JUDGES cannot determine what team the
PORTFOLIO is associated with.
Teams should carefully consider font size, color, and graphic design when
making their PORTFOLIO so that all JUDGES are able to read their submission.
Teams whose design choices include small fonts (<10 pt) or low contrast text on
images will not be excluded from consideration but understand that JUDGES will
not be able to use anything they cannot read. Teams can use various free
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 44 of 188

=== PAGE 45 ===

accessibility tools, like WebAIM Contrast Checker, to help them design with
readability in mind.
JUDGES will not open, view, or use any included links to other documents,
websites, or videos referenced to linked to from the PORTFOLIO. JUDGES may
read additional information during pit interviews but will not bring back additional
printed content to be referenced as part of the JUDGE deliberations.
Teams may use writing and research aids including Artificial Intelligence (AI) to
help them compose their PORTFOLIOS. If AI or other resources are used, they
must be credited via footnote or endnote, and respect intellectual property rights
and licenses. Proper Credit can look like this: “PORTFOLIO created by Team
XXXXX and ChatGPT”.
A team may reference previous seasons (for example, in a team or organizational
plan) to demonstrate growth, but the emphasis must be on the current season.
A202 *PORTFOLIOS must be submitted on time and as requested. Teams must submit their PORTFOLIO as
instructed by the Event Director and by the stated deadline if they wish to have it considered during the
judging process. If no other instructions are provided, teams should submit 1 printed copy of their
PORTFOLIO during the structured interview.
Instructions about when and how teams should submit their PORTFOLIOS should
be communicated by the Event Director before the event.
If circumstances prevent a team from following the PORTFOLIO submission
instructions, the Event Director should work with the JUDGE Advisor to make
reasonable accommodations to accept all team PORTFOLIOS unless doing so
poses an undue burden to the judging process.
A203 *Teams must attend a structured interview session. To be considered for any judged awards the team
must attend their assigned structured interview session.
Teams should be informed of their assigned time by the Event Director or local
Program Delivery Partner in advance of the event. If there is a schedule conflict
or the team misses their structured interview slot due to unforeseen
circumstances the team should work with the Event Director or local Program
Delivery Partner to make reasonable alternate accommodations for a structured
interview at the event if possible.
A204 *Bring the right resources with you for your structured interview. Teams attending their structured
interview time slot should come prepared with the following:
A. no less than 2 STUDENT representatives for teams of 2 STUDENTS and larger,
B. a printed copy of their team PORTFOLIO (optional, submit as instructed by the Event
Director),
C. “show and tell” demonstration items which may include the team’s ROBOT (encouraged, but
optional),
D. 1 silent observer per A208 (optional), and
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 45 of 188

=== PAGE 46 ===

E. 1 support person to fill accommodation needs per A209 (optional, as needed).
Teams are encouraged to have as many STUDENTS as possible involved in the
structured interview process.
A team does not have to have a ROBOT to participate in judging or be eligible for
judged awards.
Teams may power on and demonstrate their ROBOT functions during the
structured interview unless explicitly disallowed by the Event Director or Local
Program Delivery Partner. All teams should have the same demonstration
restrictions.
A205 *Everyone gets equal structured interview time. All teams will be scheduled for the same length
structured interview of at least 10 minutes with a minimum of 10 minutes reserved between structured
interviews for JUDGES to confer.
A206 *The structured interview timer starts when the team starts. The timer starts after the team has
entered the room and when they begin their presentation. Teams who take an extended amount of time
to begin will be warned by the JUDGES to begin promptly and then the structured interview timer will be
started regardless of the readiness of the presenting team.
Teams should enter the room and prepare to begin speaking in an expedited
manner. This rule is aimed at letting large teams get lined up and oriented in the
room and for the JUDGES to introduce themselves and provide reminders of the
interview format.
Do not attempt to abuse the delayed start timer to set up equipment or otherwise
gain an advantage.
A207 *Prepared structured presentation time should not be interrupted. The first 5 minutes of the structured
interview are reserved for the team to present a prepared oral presentation uninterrupted, if they
choose. The uninterrupted presentation time may be ended early by the team. Any remaining time
should be a question and answer conversation with the STUDENTS and led by the JUDGES.
A208 *One adult silent observer is welcome. One adult mentor may attend the judging session and be
present for any interaction between the JUDGES and the STUDENT team members. Adult mentor(s)
may be present for any interactions between the JUDGES and the STUDENT team members outside of
the structured interview. The adult observer and mentor(s) may not interact or actively coach during
any interaction between the JUDGES and the STUDENT team members.
The purpose of the adult silent observer is to provide silent confidence to the
STUDENT team members presenting in an unknown environment with new
people.
A209 *Translator and/or Sign Language Interpreter accommodations will be made for teams who need it.
Teams who need to use a translator to communicate with the JUDGES may provide one if the team’s
native language does not match that of the event host site provided JUDGES. This includes sign
language or other adaptive technology. Teams who intend to interview with the assistance of a
translator must work with the Event Director in advance to request additional interview time of between
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 46 of 188

=== PAGE 47 ===

2 and 5 minutes, if needed. The translator may be an adult and can be in addition to the silent observer
in A208.
In most cases the translator will need to be provided by the team. If other
accommodation is needed, the team should contact your local leadership to
discuss options.
A210 *No Photos, Video or Audio recording during structured interview. In addition to the restrictions of
E117, no recording of video or audio, or photos may be taken during the structured interview.
A211 *The number of awards given scales with event size. The total number of awards given is based on the
number of teams checked in at the event. Not all awards are given at every competition. Only the
awards specified in Table 6-1 based on the event size are points-eligible for advancement.
Table 6-1: Total judged awards available based on all event participating teams
Total Event Participating Teams
Award 4-10 Teams 11-20 Teams 21-40 Teams 41-64 Teams
1st Place 1st Place
1st Place
Inspire Award 1st Place 2nd Place 2nd Place
2nd Place
3rd Place 3rd Place
1st Place
1st Place
Think Award 1st Place 1st Place 2nd Place
2nd Place
(3rd Place*)
1st Place
1st Place
Connect Award 1st Place 2nd Place
1st Place (2nd Place*)
(3rd Place*)
s (Only one of
d 1st Place
r a Connect, 1st Place
w Reach Award 1st Place 2nd Place
A Reach, or (2nd Place*)
A
(3rd Place*)
T Sustain will be
1st Place
given) 1st Place
Sustain Award 1st Place 2nd Place
(2nd Place*)
(3rd Place*)
1st Place
1st Place
Design Award 1st Place 2nd Place
1st Place (2nd Place*)
s
(3rd Place*)
d (Only one of
r 1st Place
a w Innovate, 1st Place
Innovate Award 1st Place 2nd Place
A Control or (2nd Place*)
I C (3rd Place*)
M Design will be
1st Place
given) 1st Place
Control Award 1st Place 2nd Place
(2nd Place*)
(3rd Place*)
Judges’ Choice Award Optional* Optional* Optional* Optional*
*Discretionary awards
Check the Judge and Judge Advisor Manuals for exact details.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 47 of 188

=== PAGE 48 ===

See section 13.8 Dual Division Events for the modified dual division version
of this rule.
A212 *Judging feedback is provided to all teams. All teams will receive feedback from their structured
interview session. The JUDGES complete a form immediately following the structured interview based
on their initial impression of the team. This feedback form is not used during deliberations and does
not include any updated feedback based on later interactions by the JUDGES with the team.
The feedback form will either be returned with the PORTFOLIO for in-person
judging near the end of the event, or the Lead Coach 1 will receive access to a
digital version in FTC-Scoring following the event in the case of remote judging.
A213 *Teams are only eligible to win the Inspire Award in their own region. Teams are only eligible to be
considered for the Inspire Award (1st, 2nd or 3rd place) when competing at a tournament within their own
region.
A214 *Teams cannot win the Inspire Award at multiple Qualifying or League Tournaments. Teams are only
eligible to win 1st place Inspire Award once per season from any Qualifying or League Tournament.
Teams who have won 1st Place Inspire are eligible to win 2nd or 3rd place Inspire
Award at subsequent Qualifying or League Tournaments.
A215 *Teams can only get one judged award. Teams are only eligible to win or be a runner-up for a single
judged award at the event.
6.3 Team Judged Award Descriptions
6.3.1 Inspire Award
The team that receives this award is a strong ambassador for FIRST programs and a role model FIRST team.
This team is a top contender for many other judged awards and is a gracious competitor.
The Inspire Award winner is an inspiration to other teams, acting with Gracious Professionalism® both on and
off the playing FIELD. This team shares their experiences, enthusiasm, and knowledge with other teams,
sponsors, their community, and the JUDGES. Working as a unit, this team will have shown success in
performing the task of designing and building a ROBOT.
Table 6-2: Inspire Award Criteria
Inspire Award Criteria
Required 1 Team must submit a PORTFOLIO.
The Inspire Award celebrates the strongest qualities of all the judged awards. A team
must be a strong contender for at least one award in each of the following judged award
categories:
Required 2
A. Machine, Creativity, and Innovation Awards,
B. Team Attributes Awards, and
C. Think Award.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 48 of 188

=== PAGE 49 ===

Inspire Award Criteria
Team must be positive and inclusive, and each team member contribute to the success
Required 3
of the team.
Team is able to describe, demonstrate, document, or display their experiences and
Required 4
knowledge to the JUDGES.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 49 of 188

=== PAGE 50 ===

6.3.2 Think Award
This judged award is given to the team that best reflects the journey the team took as they experienced their
season. The content within the PORTFOLIO is the key reference for JUDGES to help identify the most deserving
team. The team could share or provide additional detailed information that is helpful for the JUDGES.
Table 6-3: Think Award Criteria
Think Award Criteria
Team must submit a PORTFOLIO. The PORTFOLIO must include engineering content
which includes at least one of the following:
A. evidence of use of the engineering process,
Required 1
B. lessons learned and implemented related to the design of their ROBOT,
C. trade off analysis /cost benefit analysis, and/or
D. mathematical analysis used to make design decisions.
Team PORTFOLIO may include information about resources which includes any number
of the following examples:
A. how the team learns from team mentors, and/or a development plan for team
Encouraged 2 members to learn new skills,
B. how the team recruited new people into FIRST, and/or
C. how the team identified goals and tracked progress towards their goals
throughout the season.
Encouraged 3 PORTFOLIO information is organized in a clear and intuitive manner
6.3.3 Connect Award
This judged award is given to the team that connects with their local science, technology, engineering, and
math (STEM) community to learn and adopt new tools through effort and persistence. This team has a team
plan and has identified steps to achieve their goals. A PORTFOLIO is not required for this award.
Table 6-4: Connect Award Criteria
Connect Award Criteria
Team must describe, display, or document a team plan that covers all of the following:
Required 1 A. The team’s goals for the development of team member skills, and
B. The steps the team has taken or will take to reach those goals
Provide examples of developing in person or virtual connections with individuals in the
Encouraged 2
engineering, science, or technology community.
Encouraged 3 Provide examples of how it actively engages with the engineering community.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 50 of 188

=== PAGE 51 ===

6.3.4 Reach Award
This award celebrates a team that has introduced and recruited new people into FIRST. Through their efforts,
they have sparked others to embrace the FIRST culture. A PORTFOLIO is not required for this award.
Table 6-5 Reach Award Criteria
Reach Award Criteria
Team must discuss, describe, display, or document their outreach objectives and how
Required 1
their outreach activities support the FIRST community.
Team must discuss, describe, display, or document their successful recruitment of
Required 2 new teams, or coaches, or mentors and/or volunteers who are not otherwise active
within the FIRST community.
Encouraged 3 Is an ambassador for FIRST programs in a way that makes FIRST loud.
Has a creative and evolving approach to outreach materials that market their team and
Encouraged 4
FIRST.
6.3.5 Sustain Award
Sustainability and planning are essential for a FIRST team, because they ensure the program’s long-term
success. This award celebrates the team that has considered their future team members and has worked to
ensure that their team or program will continue to exist long after they have gone on to develop their careers. A
PORTFOLIO is not required for this award.
Table 6-6 Sustain Award Criteria
Sustain Award Criteria
Team must discuss, describe, display, or document their plan(s) which includes at
least one of the following:
Required 1
A. finances and financial sustainability plan,
B. season project planning, and/or
C. team sustainability plans and/or objectives.
Team must discuss, describe, display or document how a team tracks their progress
Required 2
towards their plan(s) listed above.
Team has clear team roles for all members of the team and a process for developing
Encouraged 3
leadership.
Team can discuss, describe, display, or document how they manage the team’s
Encouraged 4
constraints and/or risks.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 51 of 188

=== PAGE 52 ===

6.3.6 Innovate Award sponsored by RTX
The Innovate Award celebrates a team that thinks imaginatively and has the ingenuity, creativity, and
inventiveness to make their designs come to life. This judged award is given to the team that has an innovative
and creative ROBOT design solution to any specific components in the FIRST Tech Challenge game. Elements
of this award include design, robustness, and creative thinking related to design. This award may address the
design of the whole ROBOT or of a MECHANISM attached to the ROBOT and should work consistently during
MATCHES, but does not have to work all the time to be considered for this award. A PORTFOLIO is not required
for this award.
Table 6-7: Innovate Award Criteria
Innovate Award Criteria
Team must describe, display, or document examples of the team’s engineering content
Required 1
that illustrate how the team arrived at their design solution.
Required 2 ROBOT or ROBOT MECHANISM is creative and/or unique in its design.
The innovative element must be stable, robust, and contribute positively to the team’s
Required 3
game objectives most of the time.
Designs often come with risks, the team should discuss, describe, display or document
Encouraged 4
how they mitigated that risk.
6.3.7 Control Award
The Control Award celebrates a team that uses sensors and software to increase the ROBOT’S functionality
during gameplay. This award is given to the team that demonstrates innovative thinking and solutions to solve
game challenges such as autonomous operation, improving mechanical systems with intelligent control, or
using sensors to achieve better results. The solution(s) should work consistently during MATCHES but does
not have to work all the time. Solutions considered for this award are not solely limited to the AUTO period of
the MATCH and may also be used during TELEOP. The team’s PORTFOLIO must contain a summary of the
software, sensors, and mechanical control but would not include copies of the code itself.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 52 of 188

=== PAGE 53 ===

Table 6-8: Control Award Criteria
Control Award Criteria
Team must submit a PORTFOLIO. The PORTFOLIO must include all of the following:
A. hardware and/or software control COMPONENTS on the ROBOT,
Required 1
B. which challenges each COMPONENT or system is intended to solve, and
C. how does each COMPONENT or system work.
Team must use one or more hardware or software solutions to improve ROBOT
Required 2
functionality by using external feedback and control.
Encouraged 3 The control solution(s) should work consistently during most MATCHES.
Team could discuss, describe, display, or document how the solution may consider
Encouraged 4 reliability either through demonstrated effectiveness or identification of how the solution
could be improved
Use of the engineering process to develop the control solutions (sensors, hardware
Encouraged 5
and/or algorithms) used on the ROBOT includes lessons learned.
6.3.8 Design Award
The Design Award celebrates the team that demonstrates an understanding of industrial design principles by
striking a balance between form, function, and aesthetics while meeting the needs of this season’s challenge.
The design process used should result in a ROBOT which is efficiently designed and effectively addresses the
game challenge. A PORTFOLIO is not required for this award.
Table 6-9: Design Award Criteria
Design Award Criteria
A team must be able to describe or demonstrate how their ROBOT is elegant, efficient
Required 1
(simple/executable), and practical to maintain.
The entire machine design, or the detailed process used to develop the design, is worthy
Required 2
of this recognition, and not just a single COMPONENT.
Encouraged 3 The ROBOT distinguishes itself from others by its aesthetic and functional design.
Encouraged 4 The basis for the design is well considered (that is inspiration, function, etc.).
Encouraged 5 Design is effective and consistent with the team’s game plan and/or strategy.
6.3.9 Judges’ Choice Award
This award is optional and not given at all FIRST Tech Challenge events.
During the competition, the judging panel may meet a team whose unique efforts, performance, or dynamics
merit recognition, but does not fit into any of the other award categories. To recognize these unique teams,
FIRST offers a Judges’ Choice Award.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 53 of 188

=== PAGE 54 ===

6.4 Tournament ALLIANCE Awards
6.4.1 Winning Alliance Award
This award will be given to the winning ALLIANCE represented in the final MATCH of the Playoffs of a single-
division Tournament or Championship event. If the event is a dual-division or multi-division event, there will be
Winning Alliance Awards awarded to both the division playoff winners and the event finals playoff winner.
6.4.2 Finalist Alliance Award
This award will be given to the finalist ALLIANCE represented in the final MATCH of the Playoffs of a single-
division Tournament or Championship event. If the event is a dual-division or multi-division event this will be
awarded to the division playoff finalists and the event finals playoff finalist.
6.5 Individual Awards
6.5.1 FIRST Leadership Award
The STUDENTS who earn FIRST Leadership Award status as a semi-finalist, finalist or winner, are great
examples of current STUDENT leaders who have led their teams and communities to increased awareness for
FIRST and its mission, champion FIRST Core Values such as Inclusion, and embody Gracious
Professionalism®. It is the goal of FIRST that these individuals will continue, post-award, as great leaders,
STUDENT alumni, and advocates of FIRST.
Please visit the FIRST Leadership Award Website to see complete award submission details and to see past
FIRST Tech Challenge winners.
For regions of the world that do not use grade levels such as this to identify years
of schooling: This award is intended for STUDENTS who are two (2) to three (3)
years away from entering college or university. STUDENTS that would be
attending college or university in the next academic year are not eligible. Mentors
will be asked for the year of graduation during the nomination process.
6.5.2 Compass Award
This is an optional award and is only offered at the Regional Championship tournament level of competition.
All teams attending FIRST Championship will have an opportunity to submit for this award.
The Compass Award recognizes an adult coach or mentor who has given outstanding guidance and support to
a team throughout the year and demonstrates to the team what it means to be a Gracious Professional. The
winner of the Compass Award will be chosen from candidates nominated by FIRST Tech Challenge STUDENT
team members, via a 40-60 second video submission. The video must highlight how their mentor has helped
them become an inspirational team. The video should emphasize what sets the mentor apart.
Table 6-10: Compass Award Criteria
Compass Award Criteria
Team must be able to clearly articulate this mentor’s contribution to the team and
Required 1
explain what sets this mentor apart.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 54 of 188

=== PAGE 55 ===

Compass Award Criteria
Submission must be in video format and meet the following requirements:
A. submitted by the deadline established by the Event Director or local Program
Delivery Partner instructions,
B. be in one of the following formats: .mp4, .mov, .avi, or .wmv (no links to streaming
Required 2 services will be accepted),
C. one video submission per team per event (videos can be updated or changed
between events),
D. all music must be used with permission from the copywrite owners and be
indicated in the video credits, and
E. videos cannot be longer than 60 seconds, including credits.
Teams are encouraged to review the FIRST Branding and Style Guidelines before
creating their video.
6.6 Project-Based Global Awards
Project-based global awards are awards that are only judged and awarded once per season and are open to all
registered FIRST Tech Challenge teams. Each award has its own independent requirements and deadlines.
These awards do not contribute towards team advancement.
6.6.1 Digital Animation Award sponsored by Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI)
This award, sponsored by Worcester Polytechnic Institute (WPI), celebrates STEAM (Science, Technology,
Engineering, Art, and Mathematics) and emphasizes the ability to tell a story through animation that integrates
technological, social, and humanistic concepts.
The 2026 Digital Animation Award is offered to help encourage students to cultivate skills in design and
creation of animation while telling a story about the impact of technology on society. This award is open to all
FIRST Robotics Competition teams and FIRST Tech Challenge teams and is optional. More information can be
found on the Digital Animation Award webpage.
6.6.2 Safety Animation Award sponsored by UL Solutions
The 2025-26 theme for the Safety Animation Award, sponsored by UL Solutions, is: Unearth Safety! For this
animation teams are invited to dig deep to uncover impactful ways to implement safe and sustainable
practices. Use bold storytelling and imaginative artistry to create a memorable message that inspires
responsible exploration and careful stewardship of our resources. More information can be found on the
Safety webpage.
Section 6 Awards (A) V10 55 of 188

=== PAGE 57 ===

7 Game Sponsor Recognition
Thank you to the 2025-26 FIRST® Tech Challenge season presenting sponsor, RTX.
Section 7 Game Sponsor Recognition V1 57 of 188

=== PAGE 58 ===

8 Game Overview
In DECODE™ presented by RTX 2 competing ALLIANCES of 2 teams each score purple and green ARTIFACTS in
their GOAL, build PATTERNS, and race back to their BASE before time runs out.
Just before the match starts, the OBELISK is randomized to show one of 3 MOTIFS. The MOTIF for the MATCH
defines what color PATTERN robots try to create on their RAMPS.
During the first 30 seconds of the MATCH, the ROBOTS operate autonomously. ROBOTS can use sensors to
decode the randomized MATCH MOTIF. ROBOTS can earn points by scoring ARTIFACTS in their GOAL and
building a PATTERN on their RAMP based on the MOTIF. ROBOTS also earn points for moving off the LAUNCH
LINE.
During the remaining 2 minutes of the MATCH, human DRIVERS take control of their ROBOT. ROBOTS collect
and continue to score ARTIFACTS in their GOAL to earn points. DRIVE TEAM members can retrieve ARTIFACTS
from the ALLIANCE’S LOADING ZONE and help their ROBOTS by loading them with ARTIFACTS.
As time runs out, ALLIANCES can work together to return both of their ROBOTS to the BASE. ALLIANCES that
build PATTERNS based on the MOTIF at the end of the MATCH earn additional points.
The ALLIANCE that earns the most points wins the MATCH and additional RANKING POINTS can be earned
though completing other scoring achievements.
Section 8 Game Overview V1 58 of 188

=== PAGE 59 ===

9 ARENA
The ARENA includes all elements of the game infrastructure that are required to play DECODE: the FIELD,
SCORING ELEMENTS, queue area, team media area, and all equipment needed for event management.
Figure 9-1 DECODE (queue area, FIELD display, and optional media area not pictured)
9.1 Dimensions and Accuracy
The specifications for the DECODE FIELD can be retrieved from a few locations:
− The 3D CAD model is the official representation of the DECODE FIELD and how it is constructed.
Measurements may be taken from this model with a general tolerance of +/- 1 in. (+/- 2.5 cm).
− Illustrations included in the Competition Manual are for a general visual understanding of the
DECODE ARENA, and any dimensions included are nominal. Unless specifically noted, all these
dimensions carry a tolerance of +/- 1 in. (+/- 2.5 cm).
− The Event FIELD Setup Guide includes instructions on how to build the FIELD, and along with
showing the ways construction type will influence the field tolerances, it also includes many of the
key dimensions which are listed in the Official FIELD Drawings.
− The FIELD Acceptance Checklist includes the controlled dimensions (with relevant tolerances)
which will be regularly inspected by event staff.
Section 9 ARENA V8 59 of 188

=== PAGE 60 ===

− The FIELD Mitigation Guide provides FIELD STAFF recommended mitigation measures for issues
with the field during an event.
The complete list of DECODE FIELD resources are posted on the Playing FIELD Resources page on the FIRST
website.
The ARENA is modular and is assembled, used, disassembled, and transported
many times during the competition season. It undergoes wear and tear. The
ARENA is designed to withstand rigorous play and frequent reassembly. Every
effort is made to ensure that ARENAS are consistent from event to event.
However, ARENAS are assembled in different venues by different event staff and
volunteers, and some small variations occur. In addition, every region faces
unique challenges which may impact the exact implementation of the ARENA,
and as such the ARENA specifications are designed to accurately reflect the
variations which may be present in official play, while still ensuring consistency
of critical items. Contact your local support to request more information.
Successful teams will design ROBOTS that are insensitive to these variations.
9.2 FIELD
Each FIELD for DECODE is an approximately 144 in. by 144 in. (365.75 cm by 365.75 cm) area bounded by the
inside surface of the walls of the FIELD perimeter. The flooring surface of the FIELD is made of 36 interlocking
soft foam TILES which are each approximately 24 in. by 24 in. by 0.59 in. (60.95 cm by 60.95 cm by 1.50 cm)
nominally sized.
The FIELD is populated with and surrounded by the following FIELD elements:
− 1 CLASSIFIER per ALLIANCE which consists of a SQUARE, a RAMP, and a GATE
− 1 GOAL per ALLIANCE
− 1 OBELISK
Official events use the full DECODE FIELD manufactured and sold by AndyMark (am-5400_Full) or officially
licensed equivalent.
The surface of the FIELD is FIRST Tech Challenge Field Soft Tiles (am-2499) or equivalent.
The primary version of the FIELD perimeter is the FIRST Tech Challenge Perimeter Kit (am-0481) sold by
AndyMark. All illustrations in this manual show the am-0481 version of the FIELD design. Other versions of the
FIELD perimeter of similar functionality may also be used in competitions.
Some events including the FIRST Championship (see section 15.2 Game Modification) will place the FIELDS
on platforms or risers such that the FIELD is raised while the ALLIANCE AREAS remain at ground level.
The FIELD variant used at an event will be determined by the local Program Delivery Partner and all
competition FIELDS at the same event must comply with Section 9.1 Dimensions and Accuracy and be
consistent with each other per T204.
Section 9 ARENA V8 60 of 188

